Agentkit blog (#1201)
inngest/website: content/blog/building-agentic-workflows-that-can-query.mdx

## Streaming, State Management & Race Conditions

AgentKit provides WebSocket-based real-time streaming out of the box. Initially, we streamed final responses directly to the UI and persisted chat history in MySQL.

This introduced issues:
- The frontend depended on the DB for the initial chat load
- If the WebSocket closed prematurely (e.g. during inference), the UI could get stuck in an inconsistent state

To resolve this, we migrated to **Convex** as our reactive database layer. Now, the agent writes once to the DB, and Convex pushes updates directly to the frontend ensuring a single source of truth and eliminating race conditions.

## Letting LLMs Query 3.5M Rows

To enable LLMs to access millions of structured records, we implemented a language-to-SQL pattern:
- Loaded the OpenPowerlifting dataset into **ClickHouse**
- Primed the model with the schema using few-shot examples
- Converted each user query into a structured SQL-style call

Rather than relying on embeddings or retrieval-based search, this approach allowed precise control, schema validation, and reliable filtering.

## Designing a Structured Prompt for Code-Based Tooling

> We defined a dedicated agent the **Meet performance analyst** responsible for converting natural language into structured tool calls. This agent exclusively invoked the `get_meet_results()` function, which abstracts over a SQL query targeting a ClickHouse database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We defined a dedicated agent the **Meet performance analyst** responsible for converting natural language into structured tool calls. This agent exclusively invoked the `getMeetResults()` function, which abstracts over a SQL query targeting a ClickHouse database.
```

or `get_meet_results` tool
